
## Common Languages

•Common: A language that evolved from a pidgin amalgamation of many languages, primarily Orcish, Human, Elvish, Dwarven, and Yuan-Ti, with Goblin, Gnomish, and Halfling also contributing. Common dialects vary between continents, but extended trade has allowed an above-basic level of communication between all peoples who speak this language.

•Undercommon: Another pidgin language, hailing from a mix of Goblin, Elvish, Dwarven, Gnomish, and other, isolated languages spoken by peoples beneath the earth. While some words do match between Common and Undercommon, the grammar systems are totally incompatible, separating these languages on a fundamental level.

•Orcish: Perhaps the oldest of the common languages, the Orcish language is primarily spoken by Orcs. A language that non-speakers recognise by a sharp clicking sound, a combination of the consonant "k" and a 'voiceless vowel' written as a vertical bar "|". Non-speakers hearing this sound transcribe it as a long "e" sound or omit it entirely, which lead to the Orcish word "monk|" being split into the common words "monk" and "monkey" (monk| was used as slang for arboreal simians by many Orcs, likening the animals' movements to that of Orcish masters of the cultivation of inner strength, whom had graduated from the rank of "monid" to the title of "monk|").

•Human: A complex language who's modern iteration originates in the continent of Baitel, the Human language is the official language of the Baitel Dominion and those within its borders, including the various Tabaxi clans that have regular contact with Human outsiders. A language that can confound non-speakers that have trouble understanding the suprasegmental phonemic tones that can split what they would consider to be one word into multiple different (often unrelated) words. A common tale of this is that of a merchant foreign to the Baitel Dominion who came to ply his jewelry, and announced that he was selling "shmukhaor". The people the merchant was advertising to were horrified, as they believed that instead of selling "shmūkhǎor", meaning fine jewelry, the merchant was trying to sell his "shmukhaor"; his children.

•Elvish: A flowing language in which no word is interrupted by closed consonants, spoken by all kinds of Elves. The Elvish alphabet can trip up many non-speakers, as many letters that could indicate a closed consonant (such as "c" and "x") instead make an open consonant sounds ("ss" and "zz", respectively). In some cases, Elves will use more common spellings for names in environments containing many other peoples; the Marvess family of Effersil would be spelled "Marvec" in a purely Elven context.